CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Studentre

Thank you for taking the time to contribute!

The following is a set of guidelines for contributing to Studentre project, which is hosted in the [Studenckie Koło Naukowe Informatyków "KOD" Organization](https://github.com/skni-kod) on GitHub. These are mostly guidelines, not rules. Use your best judgment, and feel free to propose changes to this document in a pull request.

## Code of Conduct

This project and everyone participating in it is governed by the [Studentre Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.

## Possible Ways of Contributing

### Reporting Bugs

Bugs are tracked as [GitHub issues](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/). Before creating bug reports, please **perform a [cursory search](https://github.com/skni-kod/StudentreFrontend/issues?q=is%3Aissue)** to see if the problem has already been reported. If it has and the issue is still open, add a comment to the existing issue instead of opening a new one. When you are creating a bug report, please include as many details as possible. Fill out [the required template](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md), the information it asks for helps us resolve issues faster.

> **Note**: If you find a **Closed** issue that seems like it is the same thing that you're experiencing, open a new issue and include a link to the original issue or reference it with `#issue_number` in the body of your new one.

Explain the problem and include additional details to help maintainers reproduce the problem:

- **Use a clear and descriptive title** for the issue to identify the problem.
- **Describe the exact steps which reproduce the problem** in as many details as possible.
- **Provide specific examples to demonstrate the steps**. Include links to files or GitHub projects, or copy/pasteable snippets, which you use in those examples. If you're providing snippets in the issue, use [Markdown code blocks](https://docs.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax).
- **Describe the behavior you observed after following the steps** and point out what exactly is the problem with that behavior.
- **Explain which behavior you expected to see instead and why.**
- **Include screenshots and animated GIFs** which show you following the described steps and clearly demonstrate the problem.
- **If the problem wasn't triggered by a specific action**, describe what you were doing before the problem happened and share more information using the guidelines below.

Provide more context by answering these questions:

- **Did the problem start happening recently** or was this always a problem?
- **Can you reliably reproduce the issue?** If not, provide details about how often the problem happens and under which conditions it normally happens.

### Suggesting Enhancements

Enhancement suggestions are tracked as [GitHub issues](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/). Before creating enhancement suggestions, please **perform a [cursory search](https://github.com/skni-kod/StudentreFrontend/issues?q=+label%3Aenhancement+)** to see if the enhancement has already been suggested. If it has, add a comment to the existing issue instead of opening a new one. When you are creating an enhancement suggestion, please include as many details as possible. Fill in [the template](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md), including the steps that you imagine you would take if the feature you're requesting existed:

- **Use a clear and descriptive title** for the issue to identify the suggestion.
- **Provide a step-by-step description of the suggested enhancement** in as many details as possible.
- **Provide specific examples to demonstrate the steps**. Include copy/pasteable snippets which you use in those examples, as [Markdown code blocks](https://help.github.com/articles/markdown-basics/#multiple-lines).
- **Describe the current behavior** and **explain which behavior you expected to see instead** and why.
- **Include screenshots and animated GIFs** which help you demonstrate the steps or point out the part of the project which the suggestion is related to.
- **Explain why this enhancement would be useful** to most users.
- **List some other websites or applications where this enhancement exists.**
- **Specify the name and version of the OS you're using.**

### Contributing Code

#### Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)

The process described here has several goals:

- Maintain Studentre's quality.
- Fix problems that are important to users.
- Engage the community in working toward the best possible Studentre.
- Enable a sustainable system for Studentre's maintainers to review contributions.

Please follow these steps to have your contribution considered by the maintainers, adhering to the [styleguides](#styleguides):

1. [Fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) this repository to your own GitHub account and then [clone](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository) it to your local device (or clone the repository initially if you are a project member).

2. Create a new branch.

3. Install dependencies.

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

4. Start developing and watch for code changes.

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. Check the formatting of your code.

   ```bash
   npm run lint
   ```

6. Fix any existing errors.

   ```bash
   npm run fix
   ```

7. Build the code

   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

8. Start production server to check everything is working properly.

   ```bash
   npm run start
   ```

9. Commit your changes.

10. Push the new branch up to the remote.

11. Open a pull request.

While the prerequisites above must be satisfied prior to having your pull request reviewed, the reviewer(s) may ask you to complete additional design work, tests, or other changes before your pull request can be ultimately accepted.

## Styleguides

All comments, issues, pull requests titles and descriptions, code review comments, commit messages, code comments, license, readme and all documentation **must be written in English**. Documentation can be translated to a different language if necessary.

### Code

All of the code is linted with [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) and formatted with [Prettier](https://prettier.io/).

#### Naming

- Use `camelCase`:

  - when naming JavaScript / TypeScript functions.
  - when naming JavaScript / TypeScript object keys.
  - when naming **local** JavaScript / TypeScript constants and variables.

- Use `CONSTANT_CASE` / `MACRO_CASE` / `SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE` / `UPPER_CASE`:

  - when naming environment variables.
  - when naming GitHub specific documentation files.
  - when naming **global** JavaScript / TypeScript constants.

- Use `dash-case` / `hyphen-case` / `kebab-case` / `lisp-case` / `spinal-case`:

  - in `className` and `id` attributes.
  - in HTML, CSS and SCSS languages.
  - when naming a file or a folder.
  - when naming a new git branch.
  - when naming keys in translation namespace files.

- Use `PascalCase`:

  - when naming a `class`, an `interface` or a `type` in TypeScript.
  - when naming a React Component.

#### Components

- Explicitly type `children` prop, unless it is a page component.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```tsx
  type ExampleProps = {
    message: string;
  };

  const Example = ({ message }: ExampleProps) => {
    return <h1>{message}</h1>;
  };
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```tsx
  type ExampleProps = {
    children?: never;
    message: string;
  };

  const Example = ({ message }: ExampleProps) => {
    return <h1>{message}</h1>;
  };
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```tsx
  type ExampleProps = {
    children: React.ReactNode;
  };

  const Example = ({ children }: ExampleProps) => {
    return <h1>{children}</h1>;
  };
  ```

- Use functional components with arrow function syntax.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```tsx
  class Example extends React.Component<ExampleProps> {
    render() {
      return <h1>{this.props.message}</h1>;
    }
  }
  ```

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```tsx
  function Example({ message }: ExampleProps) {
    return <h1>{message}</h1>;
  }
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```tsx
  const Example = ({ message }: ExampleProps) => {
    return <h1>{message}</h1>;
  };
  ```

- Use `NextPage` to type props for components in `/src/pages` directory.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```tsx
  type PageProps = {
    message: string;
  };

  const Page = ({ message }: PageProps) => {
    return <div>{message}</div>;
  };
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```tsx
  type PageProps = {
    message: string;
  };

  const Page: NextPage<PageProps> = ({ message }) => {
    return <div>{message}</div>;
  };
  ```

#### Imports

- Prefer absolute path `import` unless it makes more sense to use relative paths.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```ts
  import Button from "../../components/button";
  import type { CardType } from "./types";
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  import Button from "@/components/button";
  import type { CardType } from "./types";
  ```

#### Translations

- Don't hard code strings displayed to user. Extract them to appropriate namespace in `/src/locales` directory instead.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```tsx
  const Component = () => {
    return <div>Hello world!</div>;
  };

  export default Component;
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```json
  {
    "hello-world": "Hello world!"
  }
  ```

  ```tsx
  import useTranslation from "next-translate/useTranslation";

  const Component = () => {
    const { t } = useTranslation("common");

    return <div>{t("hello-world")}</div>;
  };

  export default Component;
  ```

#### Types

- Use `type` when defining an intersection or union.

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  interface Colorful {
    color: string;
  }

  interface Circle {
    radius: number;
  }

  type ColorfulCircle = Colorful & Circle;
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  type Fruit = "apple" | "pear" | "orange";
  type Nullish = null | undefined;
  type Num = bigint | number;
  ```

- Use `type` when defining function types.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```ts
  interface Sum {
    (x: number, y: number): number;
  }
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  type Sum = (x: number, y: number) => number;
  ```

- Use `type` when defining React component props.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```ts
  interface ExampleProps {
    children: React.ReactNode;
    title: string;
  }
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  type ExampleProps = {
    children: React.ReactNode;
    title: string;
  };
  ```

- Use `type` when defining tuple types.

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  type ExampleTuple = [boolean, number, string];
  ```

- Use `interface` for all object types where using `type` is not required.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```ts
  type User = {
    age: number;
    authenticated: boolean;
    name: string;
  };
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  interface User {
    age: number;
    authenticated: boolean;
    name: string;
  }
  ```

### Git

- Start branch names, commit messages and pull request titles with applicable type.

  - `chore` - when changing code that doesn't affect production
  - `docs` - when writing documentation
  - `feat` - when adding a new feature
  - `fix` - when fixing a bug
  - `perf` - when improving performance
  - `refactor` - when changing production code
  - `style` - when improving the format / structure of the code
  - `test` - when adding tests

### Git Branch Names

- Follow the format below when naming a branch.

  ```
  <branch-type>/<branch-name>
  ```

  Examples:

  ```
  chore/issue-templates
  feat/button-component
  fix/homepage-overflow
  ```

### Git Commit Messages

- Adhere to [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```
  add feature
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```
  feat: add feature
  ```

- Use the present tense.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```
  feat: added feature
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```
  feat: add feature
  ```

- Use the imperative mood.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```
  fix: changes feature
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```
  fix: change feature
  ```

- Reference pull requests liberally after the first line of **merge commit message**.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```
  perf: use `priority` on images detected as LCP
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```
  perf: use `priority` on images detected as LCP (#47)
  ```

- Limit the first line to 72 characters or less.

## Attribution

These contribution guidelines are inspired by Atom's awesome [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/atom/atom/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

Commit message:

docs: update CONTRIBUTING and README files (#14)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Studentre

Thank you for taking the time to contribute!

The following is a set of guidelines for contributing to Studentre project, which is hosted in the [Studenckie Koło Naukowe Informatyków "KOD" Organization](https://github.com/skni-kod) on GitHub. These are mostly guidelines, not rules. Use your best judgment, and feel free to propose changes to this document in a pull request.

## Code of Conduct

This project and everyone participating in it is governed by the [Studentre Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.

## Possible Ways of Contributing

### Reporting Bugs

Bugs are tracked as [GitHub issues](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/). Before creating bug reports, please **perform a [cursory search](https://github.com/skni-kod/StudentreFrontend/issues?q=is%3Aissue)** to see if the problem has already been reported. If it has and the issue is still open, add a comment to the existing issue instead of opening a new one. When you are creating a bug report, please include as many details as possible. Fill out [the required template](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md), the information it asks for helps us resolve issues faster.

> **Note**: If you find a **Closed** issue that seems like it is the same thing that you're experiencing, open a new issue and include a link to the original issue or reference it with `#issue_number` in the body of your new one.

Explain the problem and include additional details to help maintainers reproduce the problem:

- **Use a clear and descriptive title** for the issue to identify the problem.
- **Describe the exact steps which reproduce the problem** in as many details as possible.
- **Provide specific examples to demonstrate the steps**. Include links to files or GitHub projects, or copy/pasteable snippets, which you use in those examples. If you're providing snippets in the issue, use [Markdown code blocks](https://docs.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax).
- **Describe the behavior you observed after following the steps** and point out what exactly is the problem with that behavior.
- **Explain which behavior you expected to see instead and why.**
- **Include screenshots and animated GIFs** which show you following the described steps and clearly demonstrate the problem.
- **If the problem wasn't triggered by a specific action**, describe what you were doing before the problem happened and share more information using the guidelines below.

Provide more context by answering these questions:

- **Did the problem start happening recently** or was this always a problem?
- **Can you reliably reproduce the issue?** If not, provide details about how often the problem happens and under which conditions it normally happens.

### Suggesting Enhancements

Enhancement suggestions are tracked as [GitHub issues](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/). Before creating enhancement suggestions, please **perform a [cursory search](https://github.com/skni-kod/StudentreFrontend/issues?q=+label%3Aenhancement+)** to see if the enhancement has already been suggested. If it has, add a comment to the existing issue instead of opening a new one. When you are creating an enhancement suggestion, please include as many details as possible. Fill in [the template](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md), including the steps that you imagine you would take if the feature you're requesting existed:

- **Use a clear and descriptive title** for the issue to identify the suggestion.
- **Provide a step-by-step description of the suggested enhancement** in as many details as possible.
- **Provide specific examples to demonstrate the steps**. Include copy/pasteable snippets which you use in those examples, as [Markdown code blocks](https://help.github.com/articles/markdown-basics/#multiple-lines).
- **Describe the current behavior** and **explain which behavior you expected to see instead** and why.
- **Include screenshots and animated GIFs** which help you demonstrate the steps or point out the part of the project which the suggestion is related to.
- **Explain why this enhancement would be useful** to most users.
- **List some other websites or applications where this enhancement exists.**
- **Specify the name and version of the OS you're using.**

### Contributing Code

#### Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)

The process described here has several goals:

- Maintain Studentre's quality.
- Fix problems that are important to users.
- Engage the community in working toward the best possible Studentre.
- Enable a sustainable system for Studentre's maintainers to review contributions.

Please follow these steps to have your contribution considered by the maintainers, adhering to the [styleguides](#styleguides):

1. [Fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) this repository to your own GitHub account and then [clone](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository) it to your local device (or clone the repository initially if you are a project member).

2. Create a new branch.

3. Install dependencies.

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

4. Start developing and watch for code changes.

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. Generate i18n types after changing translation keys.

   ```bash
   npm run i18n
   ```

6. Check the formatting of your code.

   ```bash
   npm run lint
   ```

7. Fix any existing errors.

   ```bash
   npm run fix
   ```

8. Build the code

   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

9. Start production server to check everything is working properly.

   ```bash
   npm run start
   ```

10. Commit your changes.

11. Push the new branch up to the remote.

12. Open a pull request.

While the prerequisites above must be satisfied prior to having your pull request reviewed, the reviewer(s) may ask you to complete additional design work, tests, or other changes before your pull request can be ultimately accepted.

## Styleguides

All comments, issues, pull requests titles and descriptions, code review comments, commit messages, code comments, license, readme and all documentation **must be written in English**. Documentation can be translated to a different language if necessary.

### Code

All of the code is linted with [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) and formatted with [Prettier](https://prettier.io/).

#### Naming

- Use `camelCase`:

  - when naming JavaScript / TypeScript functions.
  - when naming JavaScript / TypeScript object keys.
  - when naming **local** JavaScript / TypeScript constants and variables.
  - when naming React hooks and files that contain them.

- Use `CONSTANT_CASE` / `MACRO_CASE` / `SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE` / `UPPER_CASE`:

  - when naming environment variables.
  - when naming GitHub specific documentation files.
  - when naming **global** JavaScript / TypeScript constants.

- Use `dash-case` / `hyphen-case` / `kebab-case` / `lisp-case` / `spinal-case`:

  - in `className` and `id` attributes.
  - in HTML, CSS and SCSS languages.
  - when naming a folder or a file, unless the file contains a React hook or component and is outside of `/src/pages` directory.
  - when naming a new git branch.
  - when naming keys in translation namespace files.

- Use `PascalCase`:

  - when naming a `class`, an `interface` or a `type` in TypeScript.
  - when naming React Components and files outside of `/src/pages` directory that contain them.

#### Components

- Explicitly type `children` prop, unless it is a page component.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```tsx
  type ExampleProps = {
    message: string;
  };

  const Example = ({ message }: ExampleProps) => {
    return <h1>{message}</h1>;
  };
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```tsx
  type ExampleProps = {
    children?: never;
    message: string;
  };

  const Example = ({ message }: ExampleProps) => {
    return <h1>{message}</h1>;
  };
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```tsx
  type ExampleProps = {
    children: React.ReactNode;
  };

  const Example = ({ children }: ExampleProps) => {
    return <h1>{children}</h1>;
  };
  ```

- Use functional components with arrow function syntax.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```tsx
  class Example extends React.Component<ExampleProps> {
    render() {
      return <h1>{this.props.message}</h1>;
    }
  }
  ```

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```tsx
  function Example({ message }: ExampleProps) {
    return <h1>{message}</h1>;
  }
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```tsx
  const Example = ({ message }: ExampleProps) => {
    return <h1>{message}</h1>;
  };
  ```

- Use `NextPage` to type props for components in `/src/pages` directory.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```tsx
  type PageProps = {
    message: string;
  };

  const Page = ({ message }: PageProps) => {
    return <div>{message}</div>;
  };
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```tsx
  type PageProps = {
    message: string;
  };

  const Page: NextPage<PageProps> = ({ message }) => {
    return <div>{message}</div>;
  };
  ```

#### Imports

- Prefer absolute path `import` unless it makes more sense to use relative paths.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```ts
  import Button from "../../components/button";
  import type { CardType } from "./types";
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  import Button from "@/components/button";
  import type { CardType } from "./types";
  ```

#### Translations

- Don't hard code strings displayed to user. Extract them to appropriate namespace in `/src/locales` directory instead.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```tsx
  const Component = () => {
    return <div>Hello world!</div>;
  };

  export default Component;
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```json
  {
    "hello-world": "Hello world!"
  }
  ```

  ```tsx
  import useTranslation from "next-translate/useTranslation";

  const Component = () => {
    const { t } = useTranslation("common");

    return <div>{t("hello-world")}</div>;
  };

  export default Component;
  ```

#### Types

- Use `type` when defining an intersection or union.

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  interface Colorful {
    color: string;
  }

  interface Circle {
    radius: number;
  }

  type ColorfulCircle = Colorful & Circle;
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  type Fruit = "apple" | "pear" | "orange";
  type Nullish = null | undefined;
  type Num = bigint | number;
  ```

- Use `type` when defining function types.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```ts
  interface Sum {
    (x: number, y: number): number;
  }
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  type Sum = (x: number, y: number) => number;
  ```

- Use `type` when defining React component props.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```ts
  interface ExampleProps {
    children: React.ReactNode;
    title: string;
  }
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  type ExampleProps = {
    children: React.ReactNode;
    title: string;
  };
  ```

- Use `type` when defining tuple types.

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  type ExampleTuple = [boolean, number, string];
  ```

- Use `interface` for all object types where using `type` is not required.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```ts
  type User = {
    age: number;
    authenticated: boolean;
    name: string;
  };
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```ts
  interface User {
    age: number;
    authenticated: boolean;
    name: string;
  }
  ```

### Git

- Start branch names, commit messages and pull request titles with applicable type.

  - `chore` - when changing code that doesn't affect production
  - `docs` - when writing documentation
  - `feat` - when adding a new feature
  - `fix` - when fixing a bug
  - `perf` - when improving performance
  - `refactor` - when changing production code
  - `style` - when improving the format / structure of the code
  - `test` - when adding tests

### Git Branch Names

- Follow the format below when naming a branch.

  ```
  <branch-type>/<branch-name>
  ```

  Examples:

  ```
  chore/issue-templates
  feat/button-component
  fix/homepage-overflow
  ```

### Git Commit Messages

- Adhere to [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```
  add feature
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```
  feat: add feature
  ```

- Use the present tense.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```
  feat: added feature
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```
  feat: add feature
  ```

- Use the imperative mood.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```
  fix: changes feature
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```
  fix: change feature
  ```

- Reference pull requests liberally after the first line of **merge commit message**.

  ❌ **INCORRECT**

  ```
  perf: use `priority` on images detected as LCP
  ```

  ✔️ **CORRECT**

  ```
  perf: use `priority` on images detected as LCP (#47)
  ```

- Limit the first line to 72 characters or less.

## Attribution

These contribution guidelines are inspired by Atom's awesome [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/atom/atom/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.
